Eighty-five teams were thus formed to be parachuted in on D-Day into the 
main regions of France. No inter-allied cooperation had ever been pushed 
to this point, as it extended to the individual, and the result exceeded 
expectations. First, the Jedhuries obtained the airdrop of tens of 
thousands of weapons, which should allow the maquis, most of them 
completely lacking in means of defense, to take their place in the fight. 
The cooperation between operations and the Allied strategy was also 
extremely effective and due to the perfect understanding that was quickly 
established with the leaders of the local maquis. In this regard, it 
should not be forgotten that although the DAS HEION division arrived as 
reinforcements on the NORMAKITE front ten days late, it was from 
PERIGUEUX, where it was stationed until the LOIRE, that the maquis never 
ceased harassing it day and night. What would have happened if the enemy 
had had this elite division available in the first days of the landings, 
when the balance of power was so precarious? to ensure the consignment. 
Similarly, when General Patton prepared a very quick round trip to Brest 
to secure his rear before continuing the advance on the 11th, he asked 
General Koento, then commander of all the French fighting forces, to order 
the 15 Jedhour teams to protect the lines of communication and the penses 
in A. This was perfectly executed, and Patton's army, in particular the 
Leclerc Division, was able to arrive in time at the outskirts of Paris to 
support the uprising of the capital and force the German garrison to 
surrender. We must also mention the actions of the Magistrates behind 
enemy lines, which created such a situation of insecurity that the German 
command had to immobilize several divisions that it desperately needed at 
the front. The role of the Resistance in the liberation of the national 
territory alongside the Allies will always be difficult to measure, but 
the importance of its intervention can never be underestimated. Should we 
add that 400,000 Maquis fighters were incorporated into De Latter's Army, 
eventually reaching Danube. In fact, the JED teams were serving the 
maquis, and the Augustus team, with its tragically short history, was one 
of them. As Mr. Emile Fortin, President of the Resistance Medalists, 
explained with an emotion we shared, our comrades Delviche, Bonsall, and 
Cote had completed their mission, but driven by a sense of duty, they 
decided to penetrate enemy rear lines and report back to the Allies the 
intelligence they had gathered to facilitate their advance. Hoover 
Institution Stanford, California 94305-6003 USA Notice: This material may 
be protected by copyright law (Title 17, U.S. Code).
