ADDRESS delivered by Ambassador Albert de Schonen, President of the French 
Jedburgh Association, in Barenton-sur-Serre, September 9, 1984. On this 
day, August 29th, they were indeed there, alive, our three comrades from 
the Augustus team, just as we had known them during six months of training 
in England. They belonged to the Jedbury organization, a name said to come 
from a locality in South Africa where, during the Boer War, the British 
are said to have infiltrated fighters behind enemy lines for the first 
time. These teams were formed at the end of 1943. The Allies were then 
hesitant to consider the role of the French Resistance in the liberation 
of the national territory, while General de Gaulle insisted that France 
take its place in the war and in the victory. The Allies undoubtedly 
feared that armed resistance groups would launch an uprising that the 
Germans would then brutally crush, unable to come to their aid. The 
determination of the leader of Free France overcame these obstacles, and 
it was decided that inter-Allied teams, each composed of a French, an 
American or British officer, and a radio operator of one of the three 
nationalities, would be parachuted into the resistance camps. The mission 
of these teams was to provide London with objective intelligence on the 
size of the resistance groups, their combat capabilities, and their needs 
for weapons. Crucially, they were also tasked with ensuring the airdrops 
of weapons and directing and guiding the operations of the French Forces 
of the Interior (FFI) in a manner that best aligned with the Allied 
strategy after the landings. Ultimately, the goal was to provide the 
resistance groups with reliable officers capable of communicating 
confidently with London. French volunteers were recruited, as well as 
American and British volunteers. We must commend the generosity of these 
Allied volunteers, willing to be parachuted into occupied territory, among 
a population and in a country they did not know. This was an elite group, 
not only because of their voluntary nature, but especially because these 
officers had undergone rigorous selection and intensive training at a 
commando and parachute school. (Hoover Institution Stanford, California 
94305-6003 USA Notice: This material may be protected by copyright law 
(Title 17, U.S. Code).
